Book: GRAPH THEORY WITH APPLICATIONS by J. A. Bondy and U. S. R. Murty 

Chapter 1 - Graph and Subgraph

Graph G is defined as an ordered triple (V,E,psi) where
 - V is a set of non empty set of vertices
 - E is a set, disjoint from V, of edges
 - psi is an incidence function that associates with each edge of an unordered pair of(not necessarily distinct) vertices of G

It merely depicts the incidence relation holding between its vertices and edges.

Planar Graph is a graph whose edges intersects only at their ends otherwise Non-Planar.

Adjacent Edges - Two edges which are incident with a common vertex.
Adjacent Vertices - Two vertices which are incident with a common edge.

An edge with identical ends is a Loop otherwise Link

Finite Graph - Have finite set of vertices and edges.
Trivial Graph  - Have only one vertex.
Simple Graph - Have no loops and no two of its link join same pair of vertices.

v = #Vertices , epsilon = #Edges
A simple graph G can have atmost vC2 number of edges.

GRAPH ISOMORPHISM
Two graphs are G and H are identical if V(G) = V(H), E(G) = E(H) and psiG = psiH.
Two graphs are said to be isomorphic if there are bijections such that
 p: V(G) -> V(H) and q: E(G) -> E(H) such that psi(e) = uv if and only if psi(q(e)) = p(u)*q(v)

Complete Graph - Each pair of distinct vertices is joined by an edge is denoted by K.
Empty Graph - Has no edge.
Bipartite Graph - Vertex set can be partitioned into two subsets X and Y, so that each end has one end in X and other in Y.
Similarly, we can also have Complete Bipartite Graph denoted by K(m,n)

Complement Gc of a simple graph G is the simple graph with the vertex set V, two vertices are adjacent in Gc if they are not agjacent in G.
If G and Gc are isomorphic then they are self complementary.

INCIDENCE AND ADJACENCY MATRICES
To any graph G incidence matrix corresponds to v*e matrix, where every element M[i,j] means number of times(0,1,2{LOOP}) i(Vertex) and j(Edge) are incident.
And adjacency matrix corresponds to v*v matrix, where every element M[i,j] means number of edges from i to j.
For representing a graph adjacency matrix is preferred over incidence matrix because of its smaller size.

SUBGRAPH
A graph H is said to be a subgraph of G if V(H) is a subset of V(G) and E(H) is also a subset of E(G).
If H!=G then it is said to be a Proper Subgraph of G.
A spanning subgraph of G is a subgraph H with V(H) = V(G).
A simple spanning subgraph of G or underlying subgraph of G is a spanning subgraph without any loop and for every pair of distinct vertices there is only one link.

If V' is non empty subset of V, then a subgraph with V' as its vertices and the edge set consisting of all edges which have both of its ends in V' is termed as Induced Subgraph of G.

If E' is non empty subset of E, then a subgraph with E' as its edge set and the vertices are those with edges as E' is termed as Edge Induced Subgraph of G.
Disjoint Subgraphs G1, G2 have no vertices and edges in common.

Vertex Degrees
Convention - 
 Minimum degree: Small delta
 Maximum degree: Big delta
Sum of degrees of all the nodes: 2*epsilon{EVEN}
#Vertices with odd degree: Odd
By PigeonHole Principle: There are always two vertices with exactly same degree(given vertices>=2).

HAKIMI's theorem 
REQUIREMENT:
 Convert the degree sequence in decreasing order.

A graph is K-regular if all the vertices have same degree K. Similarly, K-regular bipartite graph.

PATH AND CONNECTION
Walk - Finite non null sequence of vertices and edges.
       W = v0e1v1e2v2e3v3....ekvk
Trail - It is a walk with all distinct edges.
Path - In addition if a trail of all distinct vertices(not necessarily last one). Closed path - Last one also same.

Two vertices are connected if there is a path <u-v> in G.
Connected Components - If V can be divided into non empty subsets V1,V2,V3,... such that two vertices are connected if they belong to same set. 
Number of connected components - Small omega.
